# What is CTS?
A system for abstracting structure from content on the web

______

## CTS Maps structure + css to different content.

You have a default CTS template that needs to map to any arbitrary template, how to accomplish this? CTS files map certain elements in the template to elements in the default (e.g. jekyll default).

This changes how people develop things that could be a theme, e.g. Wordpress, Tumblr etc themes could all be standardized to this cts system.

Imposes certain requirements on the authors of themes:
* Make theme standards compliant (good html, css)
* Create cts to map to default example.

At some point, someone has to make a cts sheet for every website that could be targeted. Who should do this work? CTS is pretty complex right now, so expecting all authors to learn it to make some peoples' lives easier (especially if it doesn't directly benefit the author) seems unreasonable.

Maybe there is a way to automatically generate cts sheets?

## Who would use it?

Users of CTS are:
* People who use STATIC websites
* People who design themes
* Systems of static websites (Github/Jekyll, basically)
* Enterprises (Wordpress, Tumblr) that might find a way to integrate CTS into their theming system for DYNAMIC (database driven) websites.

## What are these use cases?

#### People who only host STATIC websites
* You don't care too much, or else you wouldn't want anyone to be able to use this theme (e.g. portfolio)
* You don't care too little, or else you wouldn't care about your theme in the first place
* Do people actually use static blogging? New age systems like Medium and Ghost are extremely minimalist and becoming ever more popular
* My opinion: people who blog will use a database driven system, and people who want static pages will make them so custom that they will not want them to be copyable (portfolios, showcases, landing pages).

#### People who design themes
* You probably don't have too much experience (unless you're a professional theme designer)
* Your main concern is making the theme look right, not being standards compliant
* You want to make it easy for people to switch to your theme, but not easy for people to switch away from it
* My opinion: Unless CTS becomes much easier to learn (i.e. better documentation, strong community interest, lots of examples, lots of existing CTS compatible sites) people who design themes won't have a dire need to learn it

#### Enterprises
* You are a site that focuses on theming, and you have a vested interest in making it easier and more standardized
* You have the resources to throw behind a new technology that could make things a lot easier for you
* My opinion: this is probably the best hope for CTS to gain traction

## What are my impressions of learning CTS?

Documentation is sparse. Paper is good reading, but definitely can't expect people to read the papers.

Explanation of the types of CTS relations would be awesome.

My understanding was initially that CTS links mockups to particular content documents. In terms of the project itself, I was confused by the scope itself. It's a really big project.

It took me a while to understand the relationship between CTS and normal static pages and Jekyll.

I'm still not too sure about how CTS handles the templating of Jekyll correctly, but I haven't done a deep dive into the source code of a default Jekyll project. Actually, I'm not sure what parts of this project (the project generated by `cts setup jekyll --new`). Is the handlebars templating part of CTS or Jekyll?

...[some time passes]...

Ok,

So now I have an understanding of Jekyll and things are much clearer to me. The CTS command line utility creates a default Jekyll blog, puts in Wordpress-like post data, then presents a set of default CTS links to what a wordpress default layout should conform to. Seems pretty reasonable.

## How could I apply this practically?

If I saw a piece of a website that I liked and wanted to use in my own website, I would...

Look in inspector, copy the relevant html and styles, then try to fit it in with my site. I don't know if I would trust CTS to be able to match up all the elements I have perfectly. From experience, I know that html structures rarely fit PnP into each other, and need serious tweaking to get right. I'm not sure what this exact workflow would be like using CTS.

Then again, it's probably because I don't fully understand CTS yet and there still seems to be a lot of Automagic™ to it.

If I were a business who wanted to implement CTS in their theming suite, I would...

Probably pay people who knew CTS to go through all of the themes and create CTS files for every one of them. This is a pretty steep investment.

## Current products in progress

#### CTS UI

a browser plugin to leverage and showcase the power of CTS

For: People who use STATIC websites (blogging) and People who design themes

Allows layout snipping, swapping, editing, saving in browser.

Could be an account driven service, could be a server side plugin that updates your site based on the changes from cts ui, could even use something like Meteor to host the static files and see immediate changes.

Could be as simple as dropping updated files in with FTP! Meteor would show the updates immediately, since it tracks changes to assets.

#### CTS-cli

a tool for generating CTS blogs powered by Jekyll. Can also scrape information from websites that already have associated CTS information.


